[Music]
today is a very special day because
we've got grand peace that's written
Strongest Man he's here from UK he just
arrived last night
and he's had a little bit of sleep a
little bit jet-lagged but today it's not
really the heavy benchpress day and when
I say not heavy that's not heavy for him
definitely heavy ship for us he's going
to be going through hell as we know from
our last session why don't we get to 35
for a trip or something there's
something good but we'll go back on my
YouTube videos and maybe maybe our
special videographer who's holding the
camera can and make a pop-up and say
exactly what our last session was but
but we know that Reese is also quite
strong my last session was 200 for a
double I just hit a double I don't know
what I want to get I don't know what I
wanna get is better than 200 for a
double the golf Ferb Graham is to come
first at big dogs which is going to be
in two weeks time it's exactly two weeks
from today so this isn't his last heavy
session we've got one more heavy session
of bench press we've got a heavy squat
on Monday and we want to make the
conditions as good as possible so that
we can win the thing he didn't come all
the way from UK to come second or third
or anything but first is that right
that's his best bench press in prep is
what I've done - 74 - and that was
actually the third set they did 265 for
a double he went for another double on
265 any cramps oh you got a little bit
upset so put 270 on the double of that
yeah and that was quite comfortable is
that right
it was comfortable yeah so we're not
going to go that heavy today we don't
want to go that heavy today it's a light
day so you're going to see what light
means for Graham it's going to be fun
but why don't we have a look at how
we're warming up the first thing that he
did which I quite like because a lot of
my coaches so not my coaches my athletes
that I'm coaching from afar just get
straight into it and they ignore all of
the small stuff but he's going straight
over to the lat pulldown machine and
start warming up and that's exactly what
we're gonna go and do now so check it
out through the entire bench press the
imposing movement but although it's the
most movement it's the exact position
but I'm going to read through the whole
bench press so that's why I like to
black pull downs and the whole warm-up
procedure my bench press sessions as you
can see the weights aren't heavy
stimulate I saw it somewhere on you so
the cue is to pull the shoulder blades
back and down towards the back pockets
that's the optimal position for the
shoulders to be in for a number of
reasons one is shoulder Hill and two it
actually reduces the range of motion so
here's long arms that's pulling pushing
my shoulder blades forward pulling them
back and down if you saw how much I've
just shortened my arms no bench press
competition we want to travel as minimal
as possible
he's young it's not just about making
the movement is yet about making our
shoulders have been throughout the
entire preparation for the vegetable
competition
that was really good and nice that
pulldown setup has that record
remember when you have white on there
okay
[Music]
so the way that I teach the bench press
for everyone I start very simply sitting
on the edge of the bench so that when
you lay down into position you know bang
your head on the bar
sliding back so the head is off the
bench the reason why we slide back like
this is so that we can bring our feet to
bar back enough to set up the reason why
we want that beat back here is it
because he puts him in a position called
anterior rotation he gets up onto the
balls of his feet pushes his heels
downwards and keeps that downwards
pressure up through the entire movement
so he wants to keep these feet here
throughout the entire movement as well
which is relatively far back and you're
going to see when he slides into
position come down so he's choosing for
his grip what's your grip index finger
on the artery so that's that's the
widest label grip that you can go in a
palatal competition it's not for
everyone but it's for us it's more
advantageous because it means with the
wider grip we don't travel as far which
means we need to press a heavier weight
hopefully but not necessarily for
everybody
okay so sliding into position he's
pushing his heels down that his hip
joint extension and that starts the
whole process he's eyes are behind the
bar from this position here heels down
he's pulling his shoulder blades back
and down towards his back pocket just
like the end position of a lat pulldown
from here he's going to take a big
breath and hold his breath
I press his holy spread throughout the
entire sit here thinking about above
straight down and straight up the bar
pub isn't necessarily straight down and
straight up but that's the thought
process if he thinks about moving in any
special way they often exaggerate the
movement so my recommendation is to
always think about the straight bar part
and when you're holding the position
that Graham's holding the bow will
naturally move where it's supposed to
move so stay tuned for some heavier
weights and we're going to hopefully be
moving exactly the same way as he is on
the lightweight happy to do
[Music]
so three people completely different
body shapes and sizes and strength
levels all following the same bench
pressing technique there's just two
other different variations of these
techniques that other people like but
this is just our favorite one which is
why we do it what's your best bench
press 260 kilo benchpress
my best in competition is 240 kilograms
at 110 kilos body weight as we know gram
hasn't competed in the balloting
competition yet but he did 274 a double
very easily and we're all using the same
technique so we absolutely know that
it's doing something right okay do
another set of the same way
[Music]
what'd you just say
Sam positions knives back feet back up
on the balls of his people should be
steals down slides into position I level
behind the bar taking big breath his
shoulder blades are back hands down
towards his back pockets throughout the
entire movement hold his breath for the
whole set and then breathe down that
technique of holding the breath is
unique to the benchpress a lot of people
say or they they hear me talk about
holding the breath for the whole sitting
there going to do that for a squat or a
deadlift don't do that we're laying down
on a bench in a squad or a deadlift when
you're standing up you could pass out
don't do that the reason why we hold the
breath for this this whole position with
the feet back the idea of everything
we're doing a bench press is to arch our
upper back so you see this big cheater
arch a lot of people talk talk about the
way that our shoulder blades move this
on our ribcage is in this extended
position
so that's marching out the back allows
our ribcage to fall back and down in our
back pockets and that's also paired with
inhalation so when we take a big breath
in our body actually wants to move into
this position when we exhale the
opposite happens so we try and maintain
that inhalation or that breath hold
through that myself
okay cool
[Music]
yeah
so a question the gram just asked was
don't you pause yeah he does cause a lot
of the times he likes to pause in his
accessory work and sometimes you'll have
sessions especially leading up to
competition where he's using strict
pauses and all of the commands but for
now not just him but all of my athletes
sometimes we just have to push the
weight it's still great technique he may
not be following the competition calls
but there's still going to be a time and
place where he does that he's an
experienced competitor so he still knows
how to pause and he will be including
that in his programming but for now this
is the most comfortable way for him to
press the heaviest weight and get strong
Graham on the other hand he's got to
have three more benchpress sessions up
until competition and this is the first
time he's used the competition bench and
it's the first time that he's going to
be using or thinking a lot about the
competition calls so right now it's
compulsory for Graham to be practicing
as he's going to be competing
[Music]
so he did two sets of five at 220
kilograms which as you saw was pretty
easy for him now we're going to get used
to the competition calls so we've
dropped it right back to 200 kilograms
this isn't enough to really fatigue him
but it is enough to be somewhat
challenging but what we need to do is
get him familiar with what it sounds
like to press when someone else wants
you to press not when you're ready okay
so bar loaded at 200 kilograms for
Graham Hicks
that's it
[Music]
stop press white fruit right three why's
that is a competition bench birds have a
listen to their competition calls this
is how it ends up in competition a lot
of the times you're pretty much not
allowed to move until you've been told
to move so basically what will happen in
competition Graham will be called out
they'll say so there's two hundred and
ten kilograms so they'll say bar loaded
at two hundred and ten kilograms for
Graham Hicks and that slams cue to come
out from there we unwrap we don't have
to wait for anything we own rack and
then he has to hold that weight in his
hands and wait for the sinner F to call
start where you lower the bar under
control to his chest when the bar is
motionless he'll be given the command
press when that bar is locked out
completely he'll be given the command
rack and that's when the set is over if
he beats any of those calls or if he
moves without being told to move even if
he lifts the weight up he'll be given
red lights and that lifts won't be
counted so the calls are quite important
to understand in competition so let's do
it in real time we're going to do bar
loaded for Graham Hicks at 210 kilograms
stop breath track let's be good so let's
see if he has four grand but I can still
see a few little things there when he
pressed it he's used to just pressing it
and throwing the bar down so I saw that
he actually does a bit of a change of
focus to him deaf to white for me to say
rack so so it's a bit of a pain in the
butt now but that's what's gonna happen
in competition yeah he's a competitive
athlete anyway he's a strong man says
he's he's used to rules of competition
and strict judging as well so he knows
what that's all about
it's just unfamiliar but our job in the
next three days is to make all of these
things familiar to Graham he's a fast
learner he's an elite level athlete
so by comp day he'll be good
[Music]
it's like it's ice caps back down how's
it go Chris wrap so the accessory
exercises that we're throwing in today
because it's close to competition we're
not going to have anything too much of a
high impact on everything else so it's
going to interfere with recovery but we
still want to be the opposing muscle
groups so we did a whole bunch of push
now we're going to be doing a whole
bunch of pulling exercises that's going
to be seated cable row
something else that I like we've got fat
group handles one of the determining
factors of deadlift success in
powerlifting competition is grip so
those sometimes grip strength gets in
the way of being able to lift the
heaviest weights possible so I'm always
trying to challenge my grip with all of
my accessory exercises in the gym it's
nice and easy so it's not too demanding
but in the thick grip handles are a
great way to strengthen your good
[Music]
let's do 15 reps
when we're oh when we pull down and you
train the opposing muscle group we
prefer to use higher volume compared to
all about pushing muscles the back
responds very well to high reps compared
to if we were to five reps of below the
reason for that is technique will break
down with the lower rep range the
muscles that were working in particular
the middle back muscles and never really
strong enough to handle the same weights
the biceps so a lot of the times when
people try and go really heavy with quad
reps and under there's a lot of
technical breakdown so that's not what
we want here lat pull-downs you saw us
doing lat pull-downs to start the
session that was a warm-up there was an
activation that doesn't count with our
total volume for our opposing muscle
group that's just a warm-up that's all
so now we're going to be doing actual
that pull downs as you can see we've got
the thick grip handle again and we're
still just going to be doing moderate
weight with higher reps so we'll just
set to 12 lat pulldown thick grip we
don't go too wide either the way that I
like to do is roughly the same group
that we're going to be using for the
benchpress
[Music]
so would you do thumb over the Wonder I
grab it I just grabbed it them with full
grip that's what I'm challenging my grip
strength
sometimes when I'm just working on my
back and I'm not worrying about my grip
I like to treat my hand like the hook
yeah and kind of relax my arms as much
as possible so it takes a lot of the
focus off my elbow flexors I like my
biceps and puts a lot of the focus on on
lats and middle back muscles laughs
that's traps and rhomboids but for this
the purpose of using the thick grip is
to challenge the grip and whenever we're
factoring in grip I like to
[Music]
so now we're doing dumbbell external
rotations basically when we do have you
push and pull exercises so the biggest
pushing muscles are our picks the
biggest pulling muscles are our lats
they both attach to the front of this
bone here the front of the humerus and
another action that they cause of this
bone is internal rotation so we're all
about balance so that's why we do a
equal amount of pools as our push to
create structural balance but now we
need to balance out the internal
rotation that we've been doing with all
that push pulling by doing external
rotations check it out so basically we
set up at the edge of the bench and we
put our foot up I like to place my leg
so it's about a 90 degree angle and I'm
facing right in the center of that so
I'm facing 45 degrees holding on to a
dumbbell placing the elbow to someone
named is balancing it lowering the
weight under control
and externally rotating back to the top
of three I like to do 8 to 12 reps ER or
never go to fail on these small muscles
5 6 stimulate not annihilate so how did
that sound thank you familiar
ten
and twelve reps
and it's a feed at 90 degrees and I'm
facing 45 degrees elbow balancing on the
knee lower under control all the way to
the bottom position
to all the way to the bottom three don't
just drop it low around control
so something you'll notice a big
difference between Graham and I he's a
lot stronger with the main movements and
this is very common with a lot of the
types of athletes that I get they're
doing all the right things so got really
strong muscles really strong prime
movers so it's not as if I had to get
any of these pixel delts so triceps
stronger like they're the strongest in
the world that's as strong as you're
going to get but when it comes to me
these are the things that we work on and
this is the success that I get with a
lot of my high level presses that come
to me I get a lot of bench presses that
can already bench press 200 and more
kilograms he was mentioned 250 the first
day I met him for the first session that
I had with him so he was already strong
that was never a question but these are
the little things that I like to add in
and you can see there's a very big
difference between my strength and
ground strength with the pressing but
when we do these ancillary exercises
we're both very much on par which
doesn't mean I'm so wonderfully strong
it just means is a point that Graham's
been neglecting for many many years and
now that he's going to be bringing up
that weak point this is where we're
going to be continually progressing with
his pressing strength he's done 274 easy
doubles every last heavy pressing
session but yes sky's the limit I don't
see a reason why he's not going to go
past 300 kilograms in the very near
future and if he keeps on working on
structural balance keeps on working on
his technique there's no reason why he's
not going to just keep on progressing
okay so a push-pull ratio of 1 to 1
remember that's not just completely
balancing out of the body that's leaving
us internally rotated so that's enough
that's the reason why I like to always
add in external rotation exercises to my
shoulder joint at the end of all of my
pressing sessions absolutely circus like
for me
another reason why it was harder for
Graham to do it because he's just
completely in an uncomfortable awkward
position yes you can do it with your arm
up here so so put your arm up basically
the muscles that we're working the
external rotators of that shoulder joint
they sit here on the shoulder blade
infraspinatus teres minor and the rear
deltoids so they're all back here so as
long as we can anchor this bone so it's
still and it's rotating on axis so it
doesn't matter if your arm is in front
of you locked to the side or up in this
position as long as we can enter that
arm so it's rotating on axis it doesn't
really matter if the elbows up high down
low or wherever it is so we can do this
on all angles so long as we understand
the laws of gravity a silly exercise
that I see people doing is this holding
a dumbbell and doing like this gravity's
pushing down this way the only muscles
that were working is the elbow flexors
or put it simply the biceps so we have
to work against gravity and he's
definitely working against gravity with
this movement here so we're very
effectively working the external
rotators of the shoulder joint either
way
seven and a half kilos he's probably
today probably around 280 290 kilogram
benchpress up so this is less than 5% of
that that's not strong enough sorry
he's strong as hell with all the other
muscles so there's no problem here and
I'm sure he doesn't take the fence -
when I say you've got a weak
infraspinatus that doesn't bruised his
ego that much I don't get actually very
often how much
okay but these are the little things
that don't get so many you know likes on
Instagram or whatever so you don't see a
huge amount of people doing the
background stuff but it doesn't mean
it's not effective I'd never heard of
any initiative something that I liked
about a lot of people questioned the
effectiveness of doing you know 7 and
1/2 kilo dumbbell try it but that was a
pretty good benchpress session 220
kilograms 2 sets of 5 then a whole bunch
of competition specific calls for grain
which is very new to him
so there's a great practice for gram
memory see he's got two sets of 4 on 220
and then two sets of 5 on 200 with the
strict pauses so that's the answer some
of the people's questions who asked him
if he ever does Paul's benching yes he
does with me I did most of these guys
but still pretty happy with the session
3 sets of 2 on 200 kilograms trails are
pretty good bad girls ok it's not much
when it's not common when 200 kills and
benchpress is the weakest of the group
but I'm pretty lucky to have strong
training partners like this size it
really makes me lose my game so we did a
whole bunch of a distillery work after
that so for those who have been
following we use a push-pull ratio of
one to one so that means every time you
see us do a bench press we're gonna do
another row or pulldown variation
straight up to that we do some extra
ancillary exercises to assist in our
shoulder health so rotator cuff work and
exercises to stabilize the scapula so go
back on the video check out the whole
session write it down do the same thing
you don't have to do the same numbers of
course but I hope you guys enjoyed the
session where can we find you grow and
meet you just went the best but me
that's what he thought we were doing
well we were not prep to the interview
no that's that's fair enough
so where can we find you on Instagram
see Graham yeah and what's your tag
Graham hits UK give this guy a follow
these goals nothing short of being
number one that right gosh stay tuned
normally number two we've been there
yeah
little recent no that wasn't a fist bump
but we can do that again okay we work we
find you little recess only fence don't
go on there where's another place that
we can find you what about Instagram
Instagram yes somewhere savory high
walls powerlifting check it out and
check him out he's great source of
knowledge as well and great source of
heavy lifting and all things be detected
related all right guys thanks to the
session we can high-five now high-five
could jump to get over